
28 March 2012

Matched classification numbers with each topic word cluster. Seems like 3 cpc numbers are sufficiently good, but added 4 just in case.
We can now have Topic-word-cluster: [tech area, classification numbers/areas] mapping. We will now be able to understand the actual "topic" of each word cluster output by mallet.

27 March 2012

Did topic modelling on entire data.
Matched top two tech areas for each topic cluster suggested by the topic model.
TODO: Run the same for classification numbers/categories.

16 March 2013

1. Need to make tech areas consistent (extra info makes same tech area to be counted differently)

12 March 2013
Notes on Meeting with Maureen

----Filtering the patent search - we discussed quite a bit on how we can filter the patent search (from scraped data) to get relevant patents. Some of Maureen suggestions are below:
        1. narrow our search based on classification numbers (class of publication)
        2. pick relevant technology areas
        3. reduce search space to "Claims" instead of all text. The claims will be most relevant in our actual algorithm.
        4. Use the existing database topic model words as initial point and search/filter based on the topic words from our initial model.

----Topic model suggestions
        1. Current topics make sense. Would be good if we can convert them to phrases.
        2. Compare correlated topics with the classification number and technology areas. This gives us a measure of how well our topic model is doing.
        3. Continue with our idea on splitting Geographies, and Time patents and analyzing topic modeling for each to verify hypothesis (time spillover, patent focus areas for each geo)
        4. In addition, try to do Step 3 for Assignee (companies), Established/Start-up fields as well. (I was thinking of bucketing companies based on the number of patents >10, 5-9, 2-4, 1 etc,)
        5. Our stopword list seems fine (and we wouldn't encounter the problem if we convert our algorithm to look at phrases).

